Okay let's move into the foundation
this is gonna be the foundation of
our webpage so we'll deal with a lot
of the foundational CSS concepts.
Let's just hit the ground running,
let's start with color.
As a preface to this section it does get
a little bit technical and feel free to
go back and reference the slides on this,
they're not things you need to
memorize but I think it's good to have
an overview on some of these concepts.
So feel free to stop me and
ask questions along the way.
Okay, so when it comes to color,
there are several different types
of color values that we can use.
We've got named colors, hexadecimal,
RGB, RGBA, HSL, a lot of acronyms.
Let's take a look at
what each of these means.
So, named color are color
values like blue, red, orange,
we were just using these
in the previous examples.
I've linked out to
the Mozilla Developer Network here,
the documentation on color, and
they have a whole table full of different
named color values that you can use.
Hexadecimal, also known as hex,
is another really common one,
you'll probably see this
a lot in production code.
So the values that you see here are
actually identical the ones we just saw on
the previous slide.
So blue, red, and orange, they correspond
exactly to these hexadecimal values.
Now, as humans we typically work off of
base 10, so this is known as decimal and
that, I don't know what the right
word in English is, but
the deca in decimal, it means 10.
So decimal means base 10.
Now we sometimes use hexadecimal
with color values, and hexa means 6.
So hexadecimal means base 16.
This means we can have 16 values
represented in each place value here.
So instead of just 0 through 9,
the digits we use in decimal,
we also have the values A through F.
That's gonna give us a total of
16 characters that we can use and
each place value and
there are six place values,
each having that range again from
0 through 9 and A through F.
There is a shorthand, sometimes you'll see
this that contain only three place values,
so this means repeat the character
found at this place value.
So #FFF is equivalent to #FFFFFF,
same with 000 which is black and
same with FC0, which is FFCC00.
RGB stands for red, green and blue.
So there are three place values here
each has a range from 0 to 255.
This RGB function accepts
three space separated values.
Again, each with that range 0 to 255
each corresponds to red, green and blue.
We can also use percentages for
these values.
And in the previous versions
of the RGB functions,
they took comma separated values.
So the first example
here it does use commas.
So it's still valid syntax, it just the
more modern syntax to be space separated.
RGBA is the same as RGB, but
there is a fourth place value here, and
that stands for alpha.
So alpha is a value from 0 to
1 that represents the opacity.
So 1 corresponds to 100% opacity and
0 corresponds to 0% opacity.
So there is an RGBA function that we
can use that takes those four values.
Again, the old syntax uses comma separated
values, the new syntax is space separated.
The caveat with the space-separated
syntax is that between the RGB and
the alpha values there is a slash.
You don't have to use RGBA,
you can declare that alpha value
directly in the RGB function.
So if it's comma separated again,
you've got four comma separated values and
if it's space separated, you just have
to preface the alpha value with a slash.
HSL stands for hue,
saturation and lightness.
Again, HSLA is kind of like the RGBA
of HSL, so they're very similar,
it allows for that alpha value or
for opacity to be defined.
Now, the difference is HSL
relates to the color wheel.
So hue is gonna take either a degree
radius gradient or term value.
If we don't declare a unit on that value
it's gonna be interpreted as a degree but
you can see here the color wheel red is at
0 degrees, cyan is at 180, blue is at 240.
The saturation in HSL is a percentage,
where 0 is unsaturated and
100% is fully saturated.
And lightness is a percentage where 0 is
black, 50% is normal, and 100% is white.
So the real question is that's a lot,
which one should I actually use?
The short answer is they're all
valid [LAUGH] The long answer is
hexadecimal is probably the most
widely used in production apps.
You might see some named color values,
but yeah, I would say hexadecimal or
RGB are gonna be the most common
you might see in a production app.
Yes.
>> Have you seen anything
about the level four colors?
They're like HD colors like LCH and
stuff like that.
>> I have not.
Yeah, I'm not able to speak to that,
but the W3C has great documentation.
So I'd recommend checking that out,
level four colors.
So when we're coding,
if you're using Visual Studio Code,
which is my code editor of choice.
There's a really fun plug
in called color highlight
that will actually take
these hexadecimal values and
replace them with a snippet of
the actual color that will be rendered.
So this is linked in the Readme for
the repository as well.
So feel free to add that if
you're using Visual Studio Code.